Week 3: Assignment 4: Next.js Basics
Due Sep 9 at 11:59pm Points 30 Questions 2 Available Sep 3 at 12am - Dec 19 at 11:59pm Time Limit None Allowed Attempts Unlimited
Instructions
Description
Our fourth assignment introduces the Next.js development framework, which brings together the Node.js server-side JavaScript runtime and the React client-side JavaScript library.

You can use AI chatbots or AI coding agents to:

Explain lines of code you write while following the tutorial.
Help to generate comments for the code you write.
Please do not use AI chatbots or AI coding agents to:

Generate code for this assignment.
Requirements
Build your first Next.js-powered full-stack application by completing the following chapters of the “Pages Router” online tutorial found at https://nextjs.org/learn/pages-router Links to an external site..

We will continue with this online tutorial over the next few weeks. For this first week, you should complete the following chapters:

Set up a new Next.js app
Welcome to Next.js
Editing the Page
Navigate Between Pages
Set up pages
Pages in Next.js
Link Component
Client-Side Navigation
Layout Component
Assets, Metadata, and CSS
Setup
Assets
Metadata
Third-Party JavaScript
CSS Styling
Global Styles
Polishing Layout
Styling Tips
In order to earn full credit for this assignment, you must:

Make custom CSS changes to style the output of your nextjs-blog/pages/index.js and nextjs-blog/pages/posts/first-post.js files.
Add comments in both files – nextjs-blog/pages/index.js and nextjs-blog/pages/posts/first-post.js – for every line of JavaScript code (not JSX).
It is highly recommended that you use a local development environment and the desktop IDE of your choice to code and test your creation. Manage your application's code using a GitHub repository and git.

Purpose
Continue writing server-side JavaScript code for the Node.js runtime.
Begin creating full-stack applications that include server-side rendering and full React integration.
Use a browser-based integrated development environment.
Use version control to manage application code.
Tools
Integrated development environment of your choice:
Microsoft Visual Studio Code Links to an external site. IDE
Cursor Links to an external site. IDE
GitHub Links to an external site. code repository hosting service
Node.js Links to an external site. server-side JavaScript runtime
Next.js Links to an external site. JavaScript development framework
React.js Links to an external site. client-side JavaScript library
Babel REPL transpiler tool Links to an external site.
Esprima JavaScript code validator at https://srjc.ethan.com/esprima/ Links to an external site.
Chrome browser with Chrome developer tools
Submission Directions
If you are using a desktop application for your IDE, create a new GitHub repository and clone the empty repository to a local working directory on your computer.

Write JavaScript code for a full-stack application by completing the first eighteen chapters of the “Pages Router” online tutorial found at https://nextjs.org/learn/pages-router Links to an external site..

Make custom CSS changes to style the output of your nextjs-blog/pages/index.js and nextjs-blog/pages/posts/first-post.js files.

Stage, commit and push the code changes from your local working directory to your GitHub repository.

Copy and paste your JavaScript code from the nextjs-blog/pages/index.js file into the Esprima JavaScript code validator. Make a screenshot of the validation confirmation screen. Upload the screenshot to question #1.

Copy the GitHub link for your repository. Enter the repository link URL in response to question #2.
